# 1037. Magic Coupon (25)-PAT甲级真题（贪心算法）

#### 链接：https://pintia.cn/problem-sets/994805342720868352/problems/994805451374313472

#### 题目：

The magic shop in Mars is offering some magic coupons（优惠券）. Each coupon has an integer N printed on it, meaning that when you use this coupon with a product, you may get N times **the value of that product back**! What is more, the shop also offers some bonus product for free. However, if you apply a coupon with a positive N to this bonus product, you will have to pay the shop N times the value of the bonus product... but hey, magically, they have some coupons with negative N's!

For example, given a set of coupons {1 2 4 -1}, and a set of product values {7 6 -2 -3} (in Mars dollars M$) where a negative value corresponds to a bonus product. You can apply coupon 3 (with N being 4) to product 1 (with value M$7) to get M$28 back; coupon 2 to product 2 to get M$12 back; and coupon 4 to product 4 to get M$3 back. On the other hand, if you apply coupon 3 to product 4, you will have to pay M$12 to the shop.

Each coupon and each product may be selected **at most once**. Your task is to get as much money back as possible.

**Input Specification:**

Each input file contains one test case. For each case, the first line contains the number of coupons NC, followed by a line with NC coupon integers. Then the next line contains the number of products NP, followed by a line with NP product values. Here 1<= NC, NP <= 105, and it is guaranteed that all the numbers will not exceed 2^30.

Output Specification:

For each test case, simply print in a line the maximum amount of money you can get back.

**Sample Input:**

4
1 2 4 -1
4
7 6 -2 -3

Sample Output:

43

#### 题意：

优惠券有正负之分，商品价格有正负之分，得到的钱为优惠券*商品价格；找到最多能得到的钱数。

#### 思路：

排序后，正的商品乘正的优惠券，负的商品乘负的优惠券，总和相加；

#### 代码：

```cpp
#include<bits/stdc++.h>
#define LL long long
using namespace std;
int main(){
    int Np, Nc;
    vector<LL> cpos, cneg, ppos, pneg;
    cin >>Nc;
    while(Nc--){
        LL a;
        cin >> a;
        if(a > 0) cpos.push_back(a);
        else cneg.push_back(a);
    }
    cin >> Np;
    while(Np--){
        LL a; cin >> a;
        if(a > 0) ppos.push_back(a);
        else pneg.push_back(a);
    }
    sort(cpos.begin(),cpos.end(),[](LL&a, LL&b){
        return a > b;
    });
    sort(cneg.begin(), cneg.end());
    sort(ppos.begin(),ppos.end(),[](LL&a, LL&b){
        return a > b;
    });
    sort(pneg.begin(),pneg.end());
    LL res = 0;
    int n = min(cpos.size(), ppos.size());
    for(int i = 0; i < n; i++)
        res += cpos[i]*ppos[i];
    n = min(cneg.size(), pneg.size());
    for(int i = 0; i < n; i++)
        res += cneg[i]*pneg[i];
    cout << res;
    system("pause");
}
```

