# 1064. Complete Binary Search Tree (30)-PAT甲级真题（树的层序遍历）

#### 链接：

#### 英文原题：

A **Binary Search Tree (BST)** is recursively defined as a binary tree which has the following properties:

The left subtree of a node contains only nodes with keys less than the node’s key.
The right subtree of a node contains only nodes with keys **greater than or equal** to the node’s key.
Both the left and right subtrees must also be binary search trees.
A **Complete Binary Tree (CBT)** is a tree that is completely filled, with the possible exception of the bottom level, which is filled from left to right.

Now given a sequence of distinct non-negative integer keys, **a unique BST can be constructed if it is required that the tree must also be a CBT**. You are supposed to output the level order traversal sequence of this BST.

**Input Specification:**

Each input file contains one test case. For each case, the first line contains a positive integer **N (<=1000)**. Then N distinct non-negative integer keys are given in the next line. All the numbers in a line are separated by a space and are no greater than 2000.

**Output Specification:**

For each test case, print in one line the **level order traversal sequence** of the corresponding complete binary search tree. All the numbers in a line must be separated by a space, and there must be no extra space at the end of the line.

**Sample Input:**
10
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0
**Sample Output:**
6 3 8 1 5 7 9 0 2 4

#### 题目大意：

给定一个序列，生成一棵二叉完全树，层序遍历这棵树

#### 思路：

先对序列进行排序，然后根据二叉完全树的性质得到左右子树的节点数，然后递归构建左右子树

一棵高为h的二叉完全树的节点数目：
$$
2^{h-1} \le number \le 2^h -1
$$
可根据数目判断高度;最后一层节点数为：$$t = number - 2^{h-1}+ 1$$ 

* 如果 $$ t >= 2^{h-2} $$

  则 左子树节点数目为$$ 2^{h-1} - 1$$, 根节点为 $$ 2^{h-1} $$, 右子树节点数为$$ number - 2^{h-1}$$

* 如果 $$ t < 2^{h-2} $$, 则左节点数目为$$ 2^{h-2} - 1 + t $$, 右子树节点数为$$ 2^{h-2} - 1$$

小技巧：因为只要输出层序遍历，可在遍历的时候记录节点和深度信息，最后根据深度信息输出

#### 代码：

```cpp
#include<bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;
vector<int> nums;
int N;
map<int,vector<int> > mp;
int getHeight(int n){
    int res = 0;
    int i = 1;
    while(n > 0){
        res++;
        n -= i;
        i*= 2;
    }
    return res;
}
void dfs(int l, int r,int depth){
    if(l > r) return;
    if(l == r){
        mp[depth].push_back(nums[l]);return;
    }
    int len = r - l + 1;
    int h = getHeight(len);
    int t = len - pow(2, h-1) + 1;
    int root;
    if(t >= pow(2, h-2)) root = l + pow(2,h-1) - 1;
    else{
        root = l + t + pow(2,h-2) - 1;
    }
    //cout << root << nums[root] << endl;
    dfs(l, root - 1,depth + 1);
    mp[depth].push_back(nums[root]);
    dfs(root + 1, r, depth + 1);
}
int main(){
    cin >> N;
    nums.resize(N);
    for(int i = 0; i < N; i++)
        cin >> nums[i];
    sort(nums.begin(),nums.end());
    dfs(0, N-1, 0);
    int first = 1;
    for(auto m:mp)
        for(auto& x: m.second){            
            if(!first) cout << ' ';
             first = 0;
             cout << x;
        }    
    system("pause");
}
```

### 另一种思路：

二叉完全树的中序遍历就是排序数组，因此进行一遍中序遍历，把排序好的数组的值填入相应位置就好；

#### 代码：

```cpp

#include<bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;
int N,position=0,A[1024],tree[1024];
void inorder(int root){
    if(root>N)
        return;
    inorder(2*root);//先遍历左子树
    tree[root]=A[position++];//填充根节点
    inorder(2*root+1);//遍历右子树
}
int main(){
    scanf("%d",&N);
    for(int i=0;i<N;++i)
        scanf("%d",&A[i]);
    sort(A,A+N);
    inorder(1);
    for(int i=1;i<=N;++i)//输出
        printf("%s%d",i>1?" ":"",tree[i]);
    return 0;
}
```

